Anonymous Attendee 09:35 PM  
Is this webinar specific to Atlas or MongoDB in general?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:35 PM 
This webinar covers MongoDB in general, everything applies to on-prem or in Atlas.
abdelouahed benhamid 09:35 PM  
how much time this session will be ?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:36 PM 
The session will be about 45 minutes, plus Q&A. We have allocated an hour. If you have to leave, don’t worry - the webinar is being recorded and will be e-mailed to you in a few days.
Gary Campbell 09:36 PM  
will this be available to view again after offline?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:36 PM 
Absolutely! You’ll get a link in a few days.
Peter Heller 09:36 PM  
What differentiates BSON from JSON?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:39 PM 
https://www.mongodb.com/json-and-bson - BSON is binary JSON, is quicker to parse than JSON, and has more data types than JSON (like dates)
FABRICIO MONGE 09:36 PM  
What is Atlas ?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:38 PM 
Atlas is MongoDB’s Database as a Service offering. It’s like Amazon’s RDS (if you’re using MySQL or Postgres), but it’s run by MongoDB, so you get the benefit of the expertise of the people who make MongoDB, to also run MongoDB.
Dilip Sahu 09:37 PM  
yes the session is going to be recorded and share by email
This question has been answered live
MongoDB Webinars 09:37 PM 
Yes, that’s correct.
Lagadapati Hari Krishna 09:37 PM  
will there more sessions in future because in 45 mins we can't get much information
MongoDB Webinars 09:38 PM 
Yes! Visit this page to find out more about upcoming sessions https://www.mongodb.com/resources
Akbar A 09:38 PM  
Id is autogenerated as uuid as I know , anyway to auto increment ourselves?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:40 PM 
You can set the _id to whatever you want. If you do not set it, the uuid is automatically generated. So you can create a programmatic way to autoincrement and store in _id.
Seth Kauderer 09:38 PM  
why does ID need the underscore before it?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:41 PM 
_id is a special field that is a primary key on all collections. A collection is the analog of a table in SQL, it’s a ‘collection’ of documents. (much like a table is a ‘collection’ of rows/records).
Abhimanyu Arora 09:39 PM  
so one document is one record in rdbms?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:40 PM 
Correct. One document = one record = one row in relational
Anonymous Attendee 09:41 PM  
are we going to get recording
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:41 PM 
Absolutely! you will get an email link within a week.
Gaurav Sharma 09:42 PM  
There is a mistake  for data added for RON , ID should be 2
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:43 PM 
OK, I’ll let them know and they can change the slides.
Harsh Shah 09:42 PM  
so we cant store the information of multiple users in one document?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:48 PM 
You can, but usually you want separation. If you have a team project, for example, you could have users of the team all in the project. Usually you use a collection to group together users. 

Remember that a document is like a row, and a collection is like a table. Would you put multiple users in a row? usually not.
Abhimanyu Arora 09:44 PM  
in the document all the years were not indicated which were in the table in rdbms
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:46 PM 
That may have been an oversight, I’ll let them know. Years can be added with no problems as another field.
Sunil Pawar 09:44 PM  
What will happen to column value where school field is not avaialable?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:47 PM 
In a relational table, there will be wasted space for a null value. In MongoDB and other documents, there will just be no field there, and queries will return null.
Anonymous Attendee 09:44 PM  
Is MongoDB a relational or non-relational Database?
This question has been answered live
Salam ELIAS 09:45 PM  
OK, but how from programming perspective deal with with 2 documents one that have location, the 2nd does not have for listing on a web page? Wouldnt we have a run time error?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:50 PM 
If your query is looking for documents with no location field, it will get the 2nd document. If your query is looking for documents in a specific location, the 2nd document would naturally not be in the results. No errors.
Stefano Borghi 09:45 PM  
is there an official (or unofficial but recommended) package for Laravel to interact with mongodb?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:51 PM 
https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/php-libraries There’s an integration with Laravel
SURESH CHAUDHARI 09:46 PM  
can we get this recording later?
Ken Alger 09:48 PM 
Yes! You will get an email after the presentation that will include a link to the recording.
Stefan Binder 09:47 PM  
How can I imagine views in mongodb?
MongoDB Webinars 09:57 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up in the end in Q & A segment.
Satish Sindiri 09:47 PM  
I joined in late.. will there be a offline link to review it from begining.
MongoDB Webinars 09:49 PM 
Yes, you’ll get webinar recording via email in few days.
Aaron Marcus 09:48 PM  
What does a migration from one-to-one relationship to one-to-many look like? E.g. if there were already documents with "school" value in the document, but we find a requirement to need to move to an array of "schools" on the document or something similar?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:01 PM 
Because the schema is flexible (though you can build rules to enforce values!) - you can just add a field. For example, add a “schools” array to a document, even though it already has “school”. Because there’s no place you have to define a schema, you just change the documents.
Abhimanyu Arora 09:49 PM  
could you please explain the join and embedding analogy? i am not clear what a join is...
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:02 PM 
Join is when you have 2 different places for the data - like 2 tables. For example, my name and phone number could be in different tables, and you have to join them. With embedding, they’re in the same place, my phone number is embedded in the document that also has my name.
Peter Heller 09:49 PM  
How do you project specific fields in a multi-collection join?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:52 PM 
There is no such thing as a join in mongodb. You can lookup from another table with the $lookup operator. Projection is the same as without the lookup operator.
Aashay Shingre 09:50 PM  
Can you please give us an overview of how the querying is done as compared to relational database. And also which is more efficient?
MongoDB Webinars 09:55 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up in Q & A session at the end.
Jose Tomines 09:50 PM  
Hi, I have a last minute dental appt that opened up.  Can I get the recording? my email coachjt@gmail.com
MongoDB Webinars 09:51 PM 
Hey Jose! You’ll get the webinar recording on the same email you registered with.
Chuck Stewart 09:50 PM  
What is the best way to automate an upload to Mongo from SQL server?
MongoDB Webinars 09:55 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up in Q & A session at the end.
Pedro Ramos 09:50 PM  
When should I separate the data into different schemas? For example, if I have a really large collection, when should I break some parts into different schemas?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:52 PM 
When you access some data more than others. For example, in a banking application, the balance is accessed much more than, say, a user’s address. Separating them makes sense there.
Harsh Shah 09:51 PM  
does it support heroku?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:53 PM 
It does! https://developer.mongodb.com/how-to/use-atlas-on-heroku
Khanh Nguyen 09:51 PM  
How does mongodb handle sharding?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:53 PM 
Natively! You give it a shard key and it does all the work for you. https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/sharding/
Dinesh Gaddam 09:51 PM  
How to Mongo DB manages bit ( 1,0) byte( 0,256) ,int , big int as we don't have type of column
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:55 PM 
MongoDB uses BSON data types which you can see here: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/bson-types/
Anonymous Attendee 09:51 PM  
Is Atlas works as a DaaS?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:54 PM 
Yes, Atlas is MongoDB’s DBaaS offering. You can choose to run on AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, or multi-cloud
Dinesh Gaddam 09:51 PM  
For example if we give value 24 does it takes byte or tiny int or int size
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:54 PM 
There’s no tinyint in BSON  - here’s a list of data types: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/bson-types/
Joe Dias 09:51 PM  
What is MQL ?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:55 PM 
MQL is the MongoDB Query Language.
Joe Dias 09:52 PM  
HI May I also request a copy of the recording emailed @ joedias@hotmail.com please?
MongoDB Webinars 09:53 PM 
Hi! You will get the webinar recording in few days on the same email id you registered with.
Salam ELIAS 09:52 PM  
OK, so we donnt something search all docs where location is null as they for example select id, location ....from, is that right?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:56 PM 
Correct. SELECT/FROM/WHERE is SQL, which is a declarative language - you say what you want. MQL is a functional language, you say what you want to do. e.g. find records that match this. There’s also the aggregation pipeline which allows you to have multiple stages and complex queries, e.g. take the data set, match on this, then group by that, then match those results on this and group by this other thing, then project the fields….
SURESH CHAUDHARI 09:54 PM  
SQL will not work on MDB ?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:07 PM 
Not directly, but the BI connector helps to use SQL against MongoDB https://docs.mongodb.com/bi-connector/current/
ANDREW Foote 09:54 PM  
Is there a data visualization tool to use with Atlas Search?  i.e. like kibana
MongoDB Webinars 09:59 PM 
Check this out https://www.mongodb.com/products/charts
revan gaur 09:55 PM  
In which scenario  should we go for NoSQL and Relational Sql Db?
MongoDB Webinars 09:56 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up in the end in the Q & A session.
Peg Harris 09:55 PM  
I am having issues with my headset.  Is this being recorded, so I can watch later?
MongoDB Webinars 09:58 PM 
Yes!
Peg Harris 09:55 PM  
(in other words, will a link be emailed?)
MongoDB Webinars 09:58 PM 
Yes!
Rocco Pigneri 09:56 PM  
Are there read-only nodes just for Atlas, or can self-hosted solutions also utilize this feature?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:06 PM 
self-hosted can also use read-only nodes.
Denever Davis 09:56 PM  
So if i deploy an Mongo Atlas on GCP and decided i want to use the Data Lake feature; where is that data lake provisioned AWS or GCP?
MongoDB Webinars 09:58 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up at the end in Q & A segment.
Sunil Pawar 09:56 PM  
Is it right to say MongoDB will reduce the dependecy on DBA ?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:06 PM 
MongoDB helps eliminate problems with having to translate what you want to do, into SQL. Someone still has to run the database and troubleshoot problems. But something like a machine going down is handled natively in MongoDB, so yes, we think it’s easier for DBAs to manage, and easier for devs to manage if they’re doing DevOps.
James Herrick 09:57 PM  
The concern I’ve always had with embedding vs joins is reuse. For example, embedding hobbies into a user document means each hobby is “unique” to that user. In a relational database, you can define hobbies as separate entities then join from multiple users to multiple hobbies. That reuse makes it a lot easier to normalize and standardize, e.g. “fishing” vs “Fishing”, “snow boarding” vs “snowboarding”, etc. Is there any standard way in NoSQL/Mongodb to implement that kind of relational reuse of entities?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 09:59 PM 
MongoDB can use enumerated lists for values. With normalization you have to look at WHY it’s important, usually it’s just to reduce disk storage and redundancy, but disk storage is much cheaper now than 50 years ago when relational databases were invented, and redundancy is not difficult to handle programatically. Certainly it’s worth the performance gains for having the data right there. The fastest join is not to have to do a join at all.
Salam ELIAS 09:58 PM  
Can you share some tutorials please?
MongoDB Webinars 10:00 PM 
Check this out https://university.mongodb.com/
Anonymous Attendee 09:58 PM  
Can we store images and videos in MongoDB??
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:05 PM 
If you like, you can. Just like in a regular database. There are pros and cons to it - they make your database (and backups!) large, and there’s not a db value to having them in it (e.g. you don’t sort them, or match something), but it might be useful to have them together. Really depends on the use case.
Chris Roth 09:59 PM  
What would MongoDB advertise as Atlas' advantages over AWS's DocumentDB and Azure's Cosmos DB?
MongoDB Webinars 10:03 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up at the end in Q & A segment.
Muhammad Shihata 10:00 PM  
This lecture will be recorded?
MongoDB Webinars 10:00 PM 
Yes it is being recorded and will be shared via email in couple of days.
ashfaq hussain 10:00 PM  
How is it different from the aws dynamo DB what ever seen here looks to be available in in much sofasticated and with lot of other integrated platforms
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:08 PM 
https://www.mongodb.com/compare/mongodb-dynamodb
Anonymous Attendee 10:00 PM  
Do you recommend using mongoose because mostly people add it to work with MongoDB?
MongoDB Webinars 10:07 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up in the Q & A segment at the end.
Hugo Perez 10:00 PM  
if I have a user collection and I want to search all users with a level of 5, is it better to have a level collection and related to the user or leave it in the user collection and search each user’s level field?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:03 PM 
Depends. How often do you search users by level, versus your other searches? How important is it that the search is super fast compared to your other searches?
Akbar A 10:00 PM  
Is there any plan to natively support mongoose like feature? because majority of nodejs developers use mongoose abstraction to make it easier to work with mongoDB
MongoDB Webinars 10:13 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up at the end in the Q & A segment.
Anusha Vemuri 10:02 PM  
Do you have connectors for Microsoft PowerBI?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:02 PM 
The BI connector works for that. https://docs.mongodb.com/bi-connector/current/connect/powerbi
Gaurav Sharma 10:02 PM  
what is the role of profiler ??
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:08 PM 
Profiler helps you know what is going on with the query and why it is as fast or slow as it is.
Sunil 10:02 PM  
Can we have Stored Procedures on MDb?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:09 PM 
we have the $function operator - https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/function/
Craig Hoffmeyer 10:02 PM  
is there a power bi connector … where can we find more info about that and  tablaue connnector as well. thank you
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:10 PM 
https://docs.mongodb.com/bi-connector/current/
Shakti Goyal 10:03 PM  
Hello, Is there any trail account for DBaaS that someone can sign-off for to perform some hands-on practicse. ? thanks
MongoDB Webinars 10:06 PM 
Check this out - https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas
Ujjwal Rangarh 10:04 PM  
How does MongoDB stand out from the other non relational DBs such as OrientDB, CouchDB, Cassandra et cetera.
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:11 PM 
https://www.mongodb.com/mongodb-vs-couchbase
https://www.mongodb.com/compare/mongodb-hbase

https://www.mongodb.com/scale/no-sql-performance-benchmarking
https://www.mongodb.com/scale/no-sql-performance-benchmarking
Aaron Marcus 10:04 PM  
Follow-up question to my previous, won't that add complexity to my consuming code? I then have to anticipate if a document has "school" or "schools". Can't I just move the existing "school" into a "schools" array? In RDBMS for instance, I'd create the child table, migrate the data into the table, then drop the parent's column
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:13 PM 
There’s no such thing as “moving” a field, in relational or in MongoDB - you add a field and drop an old one. Same process here - but you can use the data as you’re adding the new field. So yes, absolutely, you can create a “schools” array on every document with the value of what’s in the ‘school’ field. 

It’s the same process, except without any large-scale locking.
Mukesh Arethiya 10:04 PM  
i read that mongodb document size is limited to 16 mb per document and mongodb is nosql database and data may grow horizontly more so how could we increase the size of document in mongodb?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:14 PM 
https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/limits/  “The maximum document size helps ensure that a single document cannot use excessive amount of RAM or, during transmission, excessive amount of bandwidth. To store documents larger than the maximum size, MongoDB provides the GridFS API. See mongofiles and the documentation for your driver for more information about GridFS.”
Jeremiah Scanlon 10:05 PM  
Is there a git hub for this “O-FISH” app?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:15 PM 
Yes! github.com/wildaid - there are repos for Realm, Web, Android and iOS apps. Documentation is at wildaid.github.io
Salam ELIAS 10:07 PM  
Thanks. So the current demo, search functionality is only in Mongodb atlas or it is avialble in onpremis Mongodb? If yes, how it can be used? I have already a Mongodb running on Linux fedora
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:15 PM 
We are specifically using Atlas Search, which is fulltext search. You can search text in MongoDB on-prem - https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/text-search/
Salam ELIAS 10:08 PM  
Is this app in the demo is a php or a mongodb specific app?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:16 PM 
It’s node.js for the web app.
Nei Doz 10:08 PM  
I didn't start from the beginning please can you email the recorded video to enable me to catch up
MongoDB Webinars 10:12 PM 
Sure! You will get webinar recording in couple of days via email.
Maz Ahmad 10:09 PM  
Is the front end Visualisation tool home grown?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:16 PM 
MongoDB Charts is a product we developed in-house, yes.
Anusha Vemuri 10:09 PM  
Is mongodb charts only available with mongodb cloud atlas?
MongoDB Webinars 10:11 PM 
Thanks for your question. We will take it up at the end in Q & A segment.
James Farrell 10:11 PM  
are customers able to store data locally or does it all have to be stored in cloud?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:17 PM 
If you use Atlas it’s stored in the cloud. You can download MongoDB Community or Enterprise server for on-premesis use.
Anonymous Attendee 10:11 PM  
Can we delete data periodically in MongoDB
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:17 PM 
Absolutely! Even automatically, with capped collections, or auto-archive.
Conrad Buck 10:11 PM  
Can the mongodb charts - charts be shared with and accessed from anonymous users (for monitoring?)
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:17 PM 
Absolutely! You can make charts public if you like, or have robust authentication/authorization options.
Ivan Israel Valencia Barreda 10:11 PM  
It is posible to and image to the documents and display it?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:18 PM 
It is! You want to uuencode them, same as with a relational database, and there are pros and cons.
Oleg Smirnov 10:12 PM  
hi. Is there kind of "embedded" version of MongoDb, like for local application? SQLite like version.
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:18 PM 
There is a community edition that you can download, but if you embed it you have to make sure to adhere to licenses.
Mukopaje Singogo 10:13 PM  
How could one achieve database per user in MongoDB? Like the one offered by CouchDB
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:19 PM 
That’s just a common pattern, you do it programatically, so you could do the same in MongoDB if you want.
Stefano Borghi 10:14 PM  
Maybe I’m wrong, I believe it was mentioned that Atlas can run on AWS, GCP, or Azure. NOw, if Atlas is a DBaaS, I’d assume the service was running on a cloud platform already, no? Maybe I misunderstood
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:20 PM 
Yes, you can choose which cloud platform you want to run on. We didn’t build a new cloud platform, we built the infrastructure around managing databases on existing cloud platforms. You only get one bill, though.
Peter Heller 10:15 PM  
What is preferred $lookup vs mapreduce?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:21 PM 
Depends on what you are doing. You’d have to run them and compare which suits your needs better.
Salam ELIAS 10:17 PM  
Can we have access to the source of the node.js app?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:21 PM 
Yes! http://github.com/wildaid has the repos.
Jeremiah Scanlon 10:18 PM  
Can I hire a consultant directly through MongoDB on a one-on-one basis?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:29 PM 
Yes, our Support offers consulting services.
Anonymous Attendee 10:18 PM  
Can we cache data in MongoDB to prevent extra reads?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:22 PM 
yes.
Victor Martin 10:18 PM  
I wonder if you have some kind of internship program and, if you do, how can I apply? I'd really love to learn everything about Mongo
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:28 PM 
https://www.mongodb.com/careers/departments/college-students
Jason Toledano 10:19 PM  
Will we be also receiving this thread of information shared in the Q&A section? There is a lot of useful information here and it’s not allowing me to copy and paste any of it
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:23 PM 
I will see what we can do!
Rocco Pigneri 10:19 PM  
How are multi-key indices different from compound indices?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:23 PM 
They are the same.
Oleg Smirnov 10:21 PM  
Can embedded community version be used as a local transparent offline/online cache for cloud / Atlas backed DB? I.e. if there is connection - it is just transparent proxy with caching, if there is no connection - all operations performed on local cached data?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:28 PM 
Sure, you could do that.
Anonymous Attendee 10:22 PM  
Can you send us the slide of today's session?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) would like to answer this question live.
Stefano Borghi 10:25 PM  
although I believe both MySQL, for example, and MongoDB can be used for the majority of applications interchangebly, what are examples where a mongodb DB is not the best choice as DB? This is basically as asking, when do you NOT want to use a noSQL db but rather a SQL db
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:27 PM 
It’s really hard, personally I was a MySQL DBA before I came to MongoDB, and you can make terrible decisions on either platform. Frankly, given MongoDB’s native distributed features, I would use it if you need or think you will ever need data on more than one machine.
Jim Collins 10:26 PM  
Are there any certification courses available
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:27 PM 
There are! The courses are free, http://university.mongodb.com - the tests cost $$.
Anand Ojha  
Why do we need to specify the Longitude and Latitude in the definition
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) would like to answer this question live.
Anonymous Attendee  
How to query documents based on embeded properties? Ex. Give me all students that have hobby  = hiking
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:24 PM 
you can use dot notation for embedded objects, e.g. searching for if students.phone.cell exists.
Vikas Mishra  
is it searching semantically?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:25 PM 
It’s fulltext search, based on Lucene.
Filip Sazdov  
Hi, where do we find tutorials on the syntax for MQL?
MongoDB Webinars 10:09 PM 
Check this out https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/query-documents/
Vikas Mishra  
Is Atlas a BI tool or only for Geo location locator?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:25 PM 
Atlas is a database as a service in the cloud. BI tool and geo features are part of MongoDB’s platform,
Vikas Mishra  
I am bit confused with Atlas, as we have option available with tableau and SQL Shell. So can we connect tableau in it?
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:26 PM 
You can connect Tableau with the BI connector https://docs.mongodb.com/bi-connector/current/
ROHAL GALA  
how to update document
Sheeri Cabral (she/her) 10:26 PM 
https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/db.collection.update/

